# Dissertation -Enahncing image quality using SRGAN
This repository exclusively contains my completed dissertation for the MSc program, which focuses on improving image quality using Super-Resolution Generative Adversarial Networks (SRGAN). I utilised a combined dataset consisting of image super resolution and Div2K HR image dataset from Kaggle. The following steps were followed to implement SRGAN for super resolution task:

•	Downsampling was performed using area-based resampling method to generate low resolution images. Exploratory data analysis, which included an examination of image statistics, visual inspection, spatial resolution analysis, noise analysis and visualization was conducted on both high resolution and low resolution images. Pre-processing steps, such as contrast enhancement, sharpening, colour correction, colour space conversion, colour jittering, denoising, normalisation and Random shuffling were carried out as a part of data preparation process. Subsequently, the images were divided into train, test and validation sets in a 70:20:10 ratio. Data loaders were used to feed the model. 

•	SRGAN model was incorporated with a pre-trained network VGG16 as a feature extractor and implemented using pytorch.  This dissertation explores the performance and limitations of SRGAN by employing different training strategies and optimization techniques to enhance its effectiveness.  A comprehensive evaluation, including quantitative metrics such as PSNR, SSIM, MSE, MAE and Validation perceptual loss, as well as qualitative analysis was conducted. Initially, the model was trained on image super resolution dataset and to further improve performance, the Div2K dataset was combined with the previous dataset. Training for 10000 epochs took 24h 15m 22s in google colab pro. 

•	The model's performance significantly improved over different training epochs as after tweaking the parameters. Notable improvements were observed in the model’s performance on both the training and validation sets, leading to increased overall model stability. However, despite these improvements, the model faced challenges in generating promising images, highlighting the complexity of image generation. Reasons for the model’s inability to generate high quality images includes issues like, the generator encountering a mode collapse, difficulty in capturing image diversity, overfitting to the training data, and limitations imposed by the dataset’s size. This exploration has disclosed the complexities and difficulties in achieving a balance between quantitative metrics and qualitative aspect of image generation with low computational resources.
